Hello and welcome to this lecture.

We start with a basic overview of the Kubernetes cluster architecture.

We first look at the architecture at a high level and then we drill down into each of these components

we see what their roles and responsibilities are and how they are configured.

And finally, you go through a practice test where you look at an existing cluster and are asked to identify

various details with respect to these components in the cluster.

We're going to use an analogy of ships to understand the architecture of Kubernetes.

The purpose of Kubernetes is to host your applications in the form of containers in an automated fashion

so that you can easily deploy as many instances of your application as required and easily enable communication

between different services within your application.

So there are many things involved that work together to make this possible.

So let's take a 10000 feet look at the Kubernetes architecture.

We have two kinds of ships.

In this example cargo ships that does the actual work of carrying containers across to sea and control

ships that are responsible for monitoring and managing the cargo ships.

The Kubernetes cluster consists of a set of nodes which may be physical or virtual on-premise or

on cloud that host applications in the form of containers.

These relate to the cargo ships.

In this analogy, the worker nodes in the cluster are ships that can load containers.

But somebody needs to load the containers on the ships and not just load plan how to load identify the

right ships store information about the ships monitor and track the location of containers on the ships

manage the whole loading process etc..

This is done by the control ships that host different offices and departments monitoring equipments

communication equipments cranes for moving containers between ships etc. The control ships relate to

the master node in the Kubernetes cluster the master node is responsible for managing the Kubernetes

cluster storing information regarding the different nodes planning which containers cause where monitoring

the notes and containers on them etc. The Master node does all of these using a set of components together

known as the control plane components.

We will look at each of these components now.

Now there are many containers being loaded and unloaded from the ships on a daily basis.

And so you need to maintain information about the different ships what container is on which ship and

what time it was loaded etc. All of these are stored in a highly available key value store known as

Etcd the Etcd is a database that stores information in a key-value format.

We will look more into what Etcd cluster actually is what data is stored in it and how it stores the

data in one of the upcoming lectures.

When ships arrive you load containers on them using cranes the cranes identify the containers that need

to be placed on ships.

It identifies the right ship based on its size its capacity the number of containers already on the

ship and any other conditions such as the destination of the ship.

The type of containers it is allowed to carry etc. So those are schedulers in a Kubernetes cluster

as scheduler identifies the right note to place a container on based on the containers.

Resource requirements the worker nodes capacity or any other policies or constraints such as tents and

tolerations or node affinity rules that are on them.

We will look at these in much more detail with examples and practice tests later in this course.

We have a whole section on scheduling alone.

There are different offices in the dock that are assigned to special tasks or departments.

For example the operations team takes care of ship handling traffic control etc. they deal with issues

related to damages the routes the different ship state etc. The cargo team takes care of containers

when continuous are damaged or destroyed.

They make sure new containers are made available.

You have these services office that takes care of the I.T. and communications between different ships.

Similarly, in Kubernetes we have controllers available that take care of different areas.

The node-controller takes care of nodes.

They're responsible for onboarding new nodes to

the cluster handling situations where nodes become unavailable or get gets destroyed and the replication

controller ensures that the desired number of containers are running at all times in your replication

group.

So we have seen different components like the different offices the different ships the data store the

cranes.

But how do these communicate with each other.

How does one office reach the other office and who manages them all at a high level.

The kube-apiserver is the primary management component of kubernetes. The kube-api server is responsible for

orchestrating all operations within the cluster.

It exposes the Kubernetes API which is used by externals users to perform management operations on

the cluster as well as the various controllers to monitor the state of the cluster and make the necessary

changes as required and by the worker nodes to communicate with the server.

Now we are working with containers here.

Containers are everywhere so we need everything to be container compatible.

Our applications are in the form of containers the different components that form the entire management

system.

On the master nodes could be hosted in the form of containers.

The DNS service networking solution can all be deployed in the form of containers.

So we need these software that can run containers and that's the container runtime engine.

A popular one being Docker.

So we need Docker or it's supported equivalent installed on all the nodes in the cluster including the

master nodes.

if you wish to host the control plane components as containers. Now it doesn’t always have to be Docker.

Kubernetes supports other run time engines as well like ContainerD or Rocket.

let's now turn our focus onto the cargo ships.

Now every ship has a captain.

The captain is responsible for managing all activities on these ships.

The captain is responsible for liaising with the master ships starting with letting the master ship

know that they are interested in joining the group receiving information about the containers to be

loaded on the ship and loading the appropriate containers as required sending reports back to the master

about the status of this ship and the status of the containers on the ship etc.

Now the captain of the ship is the kubelet in Kubernetes. A kubelet is an agent that runs on

each node in a cluster.

It listens for instructions from the kube-api server and deploys or destroys containers on the nodes

as required.

The kube-api server periodically fetches status reports from the kubelet to monitor the state of nodes

and containers on them.

The kubelet was more of a captain on the ship that manages containers on the ship. But the applications

running on the worker notes need to be able to communicate with each other.

For example you might have a web server running in one container on one of the nodes and a database

server running on another container.

on another node. How would the web server reach the database server on the other node

Communication between worker nodes are enabled by another component that runs on the worker node known

as the Kube-proxy service. The Kube-proxy service ensures that the necessary rules are in place on the

worker nodes to allow the containers running on them to reach each other.

So to summarize we have master and worker nodes on the master.

we have the ETCD cluster which stores information about the cluster

we have the Kube scheduler that is responsible for scheduling applications or containers on Nodes

We have different controllers that take care of different functions like the node control, replication,

controller etc..

we have the Kube api server that is responsible for orchestrating all operations within the cluster.

on the worker node.

we have the kubelet that listens for instructions from the Kube-apiserver and manages containers and

the kube-proxy

That helps in enabling communication between services within the cluster.

So that's a high level overview of the various components.

We will drill down into each of these in the upcoming lectures.

That's it for now and I will see you in the next lecture.

